feat(highlight): update default color scheme (#26334)
neovim/neovim: runtime/doc/dev_theme.txt

*dev_theme.txt*          Nvim

                            NVIM REFERENCE MANUAL

Nvim theme style guide                                        *dev-theme*

This is style guide for developers working on Nvim's default color scheme.

License: CC-By 3.0 https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

                                      Type |gO| to see the table of contents.

==============================================================================
Design

> Be "Neovim branded", i.e. have mostly "green-blue" feel plus one/two colors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be "Neovim branded", i.e. have mostly "green-blue" feel plus one or two colors
```
Avoid ambiguous "either/or" slashes in favor of explicit connectives.

reserved for very occasional user attention.

Be extra minimal for 'notermguicolors' (256 colors) while allowing a bit more

> shades for when 'termguicolors' is set (true colors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shades when 'termguicolors' is set (true colors).
```

> Be accessible, i.e. have enough contrast ratio. This means to have at least 7

Reviewer: What does "7" mean? Maybe add a link here to the definition.

for |hl-Normal| and 4.5 for some common cases (|hl-Visual|, `Comment` with set
'cursorline', colored syntax, `Diff*`, |hl-Search|).

> Be dark and light variants a simple exchange of dark and light palettes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be suitable for dark and light backgrounds via a simple exchange of dark and light palettes.
```

(And bullet points?)

Be usable, i.e. provide enough visual feedback for common objects.

==============================================================================
Palettes

> There are two separate palettes: dark and light. They all contain same set of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two separate palettes: dark and light. They all contain the same set of
```

colors exported as `NvimDark*` and `NvimLight*` colors respectively.

> Dark/light palette is used for background in dark/light color scheme and for
> foreground in light/dark color scheme. This introduces recognizable visual
> system without too standing out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dark palette is used for background in tje dark color scheme and for
foreground in the light color scheme, and vice versa. This introduces recognizable visual
system without too standing out.
```

Actual computation of palettes should be done in a perceptually uniform color
space. Oklch is a good choice.

Each palette has the following colors (descriptions are for dark background;
reverse for light one):

- Four shades of "colored" greys for general UI. In 256 colors they are exact

>   greys, with true colors - shades of "cool" grey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  greys; in true colors they are shades of "cool" grey.
```

    - Dark ones (from darkest to lightest) are reserved as background for
      |hl-NormalFloat| (considered as "black"), |hl-Normal| (background),
      |hl-CursorLine|, |hl-Visual|.
    - Light ones (also from darkest to lightest) are reserved for
      `Comment`, |hl-StatusLine|/|hl-TabLine|, |hl-Normal| (foreground),
      and color considered as "white".

> - Six colors to be enough to comply with terminal colors: red, yellow, green,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Six colors to provide enough terminal colors: red, yellow, green,
```

  cyan, blue, magenta.

>   They should have (reasonably) the same lightness and chroma to make them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  They should have (reasonably) similar lightness and chroma to make them
```

>   visually coherent. Lightness should be equal to palette's basic grey (which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  visually coherent. Lightness should be equal to the palette's basic grey (which
```

  is used for |hl-Normal|). They should have (reasonably) different hues to
  make them visually separable.

> - Each palette color should have the 256 colors variant with closest color

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each palette color should have a 256 colors variant with closest color
```

  computed based on the perceptually uniform distance measure.

==============================================================================
Highlight groups

> 

Reviewer: Here (as in the design section), you could structure this as 

```
Use

* 8 shades of grey ...

* bold text ...

```

This makes the keywords stand out more.

Use 8 shades of grey for general UI according to their design.

Use bold text for keywords (`Statement` highlight group). This is an important
choice to increase accessibility for people with color deficiencies, as it
doesn't rely on actual color.

Use green for strings, |hl-DiffAdd| (as background), |hl-DiagnosticOk|, and some
minor text UI elements.

Use cyan as main syntax color, i.e. for function calls (`Function` highlight
groups), |hl-DiffText|, |hl-DiagnosticInfo|, and some minor text UI elements.

> Use red to generally mean high user attention, i.e. errors. That is,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use red to generally mean high user attention, i.e. errors; in particular for
```

|hl-ErrorMsg|, |hl-DiffDelete|, |hl-DiagnosticError|.

> Use (__very sparingly__) yellow only with true colors to mean mild user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use (very sparingly!) yellow only with true colors to mean mild user
```
Vimdoc is not Markup ;)
